
Install RTL-SDR  

Step 1

sudo apt-get install git
sudo apt-get install cmake
sudo apt-get install build-essential   

sudo apt install pkg-config

Step 2

Retrieve, build and compile the RTL2832U Osmocom drivers from the source (this is all one command).


sudo apt install pkg-config 

sudo apt install libusb-1.0-0 

git clone git://git.osmocom.org/rtl-sdr.git 

cd rtl-sdr 

mkdir build 

cd build 

cmake .. 

sudo make install 

sudo ldconfig 

sudo cp ../rtl-sdr.rules /etc/udev/rules.d/

Step 3

Black List Drivers 

cd /etc/modprobe.d 

sudo nano blacklist-rtl.conf 

Add this line to the file blacklist dvb_usb_rtl28xxu 

sudo reboot
Install GQRX

sudo apt install gnuradio gqrx-sdr 

You can launch from CLI with command “gqrx” or search within you Ubuntu Desktop
Install GPREDICT

Step 1- sudo apt-get update 

Step 2- sudo apt-get -y install gpredict

Configure

NOTE THIS REQUIRES A MONITOR

Step 1- Obtain TCP Port from GQRZ 

Click on the tools icon within GQRX and find your TCP Listen Port

Step 2- Add Network Connection 

Click the icon with the two computers in, it will go dark when active

Step 3- Create Interface on GPredict 

Open GPredict and go to edit > preferences > interface

Step 4- Add Radio 

Within the interfaces “radio” section click “add new”. Change the following details: 

    Name- Input Your UUID 

    Port- Change this to the port obtained in Step 1 and click ok

Step 5- Create Ground Station and module

Click “File > Add Module”. Then click the plus icon to create a new ground station. ENsure the name matches the UUID and the lat, lon and altitude match those in your DeFli wallet. Select your closest weather station and then press “ok”. 

In the module tab as pictured below, move satellites listed below in to the right hand box, give your module a name and ensure the ground station you just selected is showing in the Ground Station tab. 

Finally go to edit > update TLE > choose from network 

     NOAA 15, 18, 19 

    ISS

    CAS4A / CAS4B

    Max Valier Sat

    OPS-SAT 

    LUSAT 

Step 6- Radio Module 

Click the button in the top right hand corner and from the menu option select “radio control” 

The output screen will look like this

On the right hand side ensure that Settings 1. Device is showing your UUID. Then click “engage”. 

On the left hand side under target select a satellite and press “track”. 

Navigate back to GQRX module and turn “squelch” to 105 dBi as per the image below

Finally, navigate back to GPredict and from the top right menu that you selected “radio control” from, click “autotrack”.

Step 7- Send your data 

Navigate back to GQRX and go to the network tab of the audio settings menu. You will be met with this box

Change the UDP host to the IP Address of your Raspberry Pi. 

Then navigate back to the front page and press the small network button located left to the audio recording button, see the red marking on the screenshot below.

You can verify you are receiving the signal by using command 
nc -l -u 7355 

This will take the form of lots of funny symbols on your terminal. 

Finally send this data to us using command 

sudo socat -T 10 UDP4-LISTEN:7355,reuseaddr,fork UDP4:44.52.11.28:4911
